#various games and their state of playability with steam flatpak on T440p, Intel i7 4600M (HD graphics 4600), NixOS, 16GB RAM, Wayland

Sid Meier's Civilization V: Working, linux native
Shovel Knight Treasure Trove: Working, linux native
Peggle: Working, windows compatability layer
Undertale: Working, linux native
Sonic CD: borked
Pseudoregalia: borked
Fallout New Vegas: borked
Analogue a Hate Story: working, but plays badly with dual monitors
Angels with Scaly Wings: working
Atlyss: borked
Cave Story: linux version borked, windows version working
Celeste: oddly enough, working
Chantelise: working
Deltarune: borked
Digimon Story Cyber Sleuth: working.  Playability not yet tested
Disco Elysium: Loading with Proton 10, not loading with at least some others + default.  Doesn't seem playable, even after upgrading to 16GB of memory.
Dragon A Game About a Dragon: working with proton 10
Golden Treasure The Great Green: borked
Hate Plus: working, but plays badly with dual monitors
Kane and Lynch 2 Dog Days: borked
Laika Aged through Blood: borked
The Murder of Sonic the Hedgehog: borked
Neofeud: not working, but not-works the best with proton 10 and 9
Never Alone (Kisima Ingitchuna): working
Night in the Woods: loading.  Seems fully playable, but not intensely tested
Radiant Silvergun: borked
Recettear An Item Shop's Tale: working
Shadowrun Dragonfall: linux native version borked, windows version throwing OpenGL error
Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri: working

Overall takeaway: Haswell generation intel graphics have experienced some strange and poorly documented deprecation over time,
where the code exists to make them run opengl and directx:

1. In a way it used to be able to
2. In slightly more cases than they currently can
3. In a way that's deployed exlusively on some hidden branch of an unknown repository,
inaccessible to any linux default repository and only known to even exist through
diving deep into every search engine, using search techniques long forgotten and
rendered inconsistently useful due to the total destruction of functional search algorithms by financial incentives and AI.

Most of the games here should work, but getting them to do so is a bit too esoteric for the payoff for me right now.  Sorry.
